---
title: Course Strucutre
---

# Course structure


The course will try to follow this flow. Please have a look.

---

* **Week 1 : Brushing up coding skills, Python** 

Basic hands on coding, Python with emphasis on its libraries :
Matplotlib, Pandas, NumPy, SciPy, Seaborn. Apply the learning
on a Data Analytical Exercise (Just to gain some Data intuition)

---

* **Week 2 : Finance 101 - Basics of Markets**

Idea of how Finances work, Concept of Money, Markets -
Commodities, Equities, Derivatives, Government Bonds, etc.
Basics of Stock Market and developing a compatibility with
World Business/Financial Market news.

---

* **Week 3 : Mathematical Finance and Python - I**

**Math** : Linear Algebra, Probability Theory, Stochastic Processes.

**Python** : Using Python for basic Financial Data Analysis.

---

* **Week 4 : Mathematical Finance and Python - II**

**Math** : Regression Analysis, VAR Models, Time Series Analysis

**Python** : Applying Python to Risk-Return Concepts, Markowitz
and other Portfolio Optimization models.

---

* **Week 5 : Mathematical Finance and Python - III**

**Math** : Volatility Modelling, Regularized Pricing and Risk Models,
TS Analysis.

**Python** : Practice of Algorithmic Trading, 5 Technical Indicators,
Introduction to Strategies.

---

* **Week 6 : Assignments and Tests**

Testing on the basis of what we learn in 5 Weeks. Top Achievers
will be carefully noted and will be considered for important
Positions of Responsibility which we are soon going to open up
within CEV and CEV Aryavarta.

---
